[Abstract]
Large language and vision-language models are rapidly being deployed in practice thanks to their impressive capabilities in instruction following, in-context learning, and so on. This raises an urgent need to carefully analyse their robustness so that stakeholders can understand if and when such models are trustworthy enough to be relied upon in any given application. In this paper, we highlight a specific vulnerability in popular models, namely permutation sensitivity in multiple-choice question answering (MCQA). Specifically, we show empirically that popular models are vulnerable to adversarial permutation in answer sets for multiple-choice prompting, which is surprising as models should ideally be as invariant to prompt permutation as humans are. These vulnerabilities persist across various model sizes, and exist in very recent language and vision-language models. Code is available at https://github.com/ ys-zong/FoolyourVLLMs.

[Fine-tuning on Training Set]
While (V)LLMs are typically evaluated in zero-shot on the MCQ benchmarks without within-dataset fine-tuning, we study whether fine-tuning on the training set can enhance the robustness to the permutation.

[Fine-tuning on Training Set]
Setup As many of the benchmarks do not provide a training set, we conduct two fine-tuning experiments using Llama2-7B on two datasets that do provide training sets: ARC-Challenge (Clark et al., 2018) and MedMCQA (Pal et al., 2022) . We also consider two fine-tuning variations: using the original training data and augmenting the training data with option permutations (n!) during fine-tuning. The latter is inspired by adversarial training (Madry et al., 2018) , to ensure that the model learns robustness to permutations during training. We fine-tune with LoRA (Hu et al., 2022) for 1 epoch.

[Model Original 4 Choices 3 Choices 2 Choices]
Table 19 . Majority vote performance when considering the easy sample with respect to a certain model to be the ones where 25% of the permutations are correct on the MMLU dataset. If we consider the easy sample with respect to a certain model to be the ones where 25% of the permutations are correct, the majority vote accuracy of difficult samples will be 0%, and we calculate the accuracy for majority vote on the easy samples. As shown in the both models have improved with majority vote on easy samples but the final performance may or may not be improved overall when considering the average accuracy across both easy and difficult samples. 
