[Abstract]
In Reinforcement Learning (RL), designing precise reward functions remains to be a challenge, particularly when aligning with human intent. Preference-based RL (PbRL) was introduced to address this problem by learning reward models from human feedback. However, existing PbRL methods have limitations as they often overlook the second-order preference that indicates the relative strength of preference. In this paper, we propose Listwise Reward Estimation (LiRE), a novel approach for offline PbRL that leverages secondorder preference information by constructing a Ranked List of Trajectories (RLT), which can be efficiently built by using the same ternary feedback type as traditional methods. To validate the effectiveness of LiRE, we propose a new offline PbRL dataset that objectively reflects the effect of the estimated rewards. Our extensive experiments on the dataset demonstrate the superiority of LiRE, i.e., outperforming state-of-the-art baselines even with modest feedback budgets and enjoying robustness with respect to the number of feedbacks and feedback noise. Our code is available at https://github.com/chwoong/LiRE

[COMPATIBILITY WITH OTHER METHODS]
To check the compatibility of LiRE with other methods, we tested the performance of LiRE when combined with OPRL and PT, respectively. First, to apply OPRL and LiRE simultaneously, we trained a reward model each time an RLT was newly constructed, and then actively sampled based on the disagreement of the reward models (following the method of OPRL) when constructing the next RLT. In Figure 6 (a), we observe that LiRE+OPRL outperforms LiRE in sweep-into and lever-pull tasks but performs worse in button-press-topdown task. This discrepancy suggests that while the OPRL method enhances the consistency of the reward model, it may lead to oversampling similar segments that are challenging to distinguish depending on the task. Second, as shown in Figure 6 (b), LiRE does not necessarily gain improvements when combined with PT. That is, since PT was originally designed to capture temporal dependencies of segments in reward modeling, it seems to struggle in accurately capturing the second-order preference information from RLT possibly due to overfitting to the sequence of past segments. effective in practical scenarios with real human preference feedback, as in LLM alignment.

[A.4. Increasing Epochs of Reward Model Training]
As described in Appendix C.5, the epochs experimented with in Table 2 is 300. Table 11 shows the performance when we increase the epochs to 5000. Both MR and LiRE tend to perform better with more epochs, but LiRE still performs better than MR. The performance gap between using the exponential score function and the linear score function for LiRE is smaller at 5000 epochs than at 300 epochs. However, when the epoch is 5000, the linear score function has a significant performance improvement on the dial-turn and button-press-topdown-wall tasks and performs better or similar to the exponential score function on other tasks. 
