[Abstract]
The role of data in building AI systems has recently been emphasized by the emerging concept of data-centric AI. Unfortunately, in the real-world, datasets may contain dirty samples, such as poisoned samples from backdoor attack, noisy labels in crowdsourcing, and even hybrids of them. The presence of such dirty samples makes the DNNs vunerable and unreliable. Hence, it is critical to detect dirty samples to improve the quality and realiability of dataset. Existing detectors only focus on detecting poisoned samples or noisy labels, that are often prone to weak generalization when dealing with dirty samples from other fields. In this paper, we find a commonality of various dirty samples is visual-linguistic inconsistency between images and associated labels. To capture the semantic inconsistency between modalities, we propose versatile data cleanser (VDC) leveraging the surpassing capabilities of multimodal large language models (MLLM) in cross-modal alignment and reasoning. It consists of three consecutive modules: the visual question generation module to generate insightful questions about the image; the visual question answering module to acquire the semantics of the visual content by answering the questions with MLLM; followed by the visual answer evaluation module to evaluate the inconsistency. Extensive experiments demonstrate its superior performance and generalization to various categories and types of dirty samples. The code is available at https://github.com/zihao-ai/vdc.

[METHODOLOGY: VERSATILE DATA CLEANSER]
We find that what poisoned samples and noisy labels have in common is that the visual features of the poisoned samples are inconsistent with their given labels. For example, an image containing 'cat' is wrongly labeled as a 'dog', which can be detected by comparing the semantics of the visual content of the image and that of the given label. For the poisoned sample, although the trigger is embedded into the image, its underlying semantics has not been modified. We refer this commonality as "visual-linguistic inconsistency". Thanks to the surpassing abilities of multimodal understanding and reasoning of MLLM, we propose Versatile Data Cleanser, called VDC, to capture the visuallinguistic inconsistency based on MLLM. To the best of our knowledge, VDC is the first universal framework that is capable of detecting both noisy labels and poisoned samples simultaneously. As shown in Figure 1 , it consists of the following consecutive modules: 

[TRAINING ON THE PURIFIED DATASETS]
After detecting and removing dirty samples from the origin dataset, we normally train DNNs on the purified datasets to verify the detection effect. The results on the purified datasets initially contain poisoned samples, noisy labels, and hybrid dirty samples are shown in Tables 6, 15 ,16,17. By accurately detecting dirty samples, VDC indeed prevents the trained model from being interfered by dirty samples, i.e., maintaining low ASR and high ACC compared with other detectors.

[B A NAIVE APPROACH WITH CLIP]
As we identified in the manuscript, how to measure the visual-linguistic inconsistency between the visual content and associated labels is the key to detect dirty samples. A naive approach to quantify such semantic inconsistency is directly using CLIP (Radford et al., 2021) . We first encode the input image using image encoder in the CLIP, and get the image representation I. The associated label is transformed into sentences, "a photo of {label}". Then the text representation T is extracted from the sentence via text encoder in the CLIP. Cosine similarity between I and T is treated as the matching score. If the matching score is less than a certain threshold, the input sample can be considered as dirty sample. In the implementation, we choose ViT-B/32 as the image encoder and the threshold is set as 0.2. The results are shown in Table 7 , where VDC-CLIP represents the naive approach with CLIP. We find that the TPR using only CLIP is far from our proposed VDC, indicating the need for more advanced detection frameworks instead of only using CLIP. After successfully detecting dirty samples in the dataset, we need to normally training on the purified dataset t further verify the effectiveness of detectors. In our experiments, we choose ResNet-18 as the target model. For all datasets, the training epochs is set as 100 and adpot SGD optimizer. For Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2024 CIFAR-10, we set the batch size of 128 and the inital learning rate of 0.1 and decreases it by the factor of 10 after 50, 75 epochs. For ImageNet-100 and ImageNet-Dog, the batch size is 64, the inital learning rate is 0.1 and decreases by the factor of 10 after 30, 60 epochs.
