[Abstract]
Uniformity plays an important role in evaluating learned representations, providing insights into self-supervised learning. In our quest for effective uniformity metrics, we pinpoint four principled properties that such metrics should possess. Namely, an effective uniformity metric should remain invariant to instance permutations and sample replications while accurately capturing feature redundancy and dimensional collapse. Surprisingly, we find that the uniformity metric proposed by Wang & Isola (2020) fails to satisfy the majority of these properties. Specifically, their metric is sensitive to sample replications, and can not account for feature redundancy and dimensional collapse correctly. To overcome these limitations, we introduce a new uniformity metric based on the Wasserstein distance, which satisfies all the aforementioned properties. Integrating this new metric in existing self-supervised learning methods effectively mitigates dimensional collapse and consistently improves their performance on downstream tasks involving CIFAR-10 and CIFAR-100 datasets. Code is available at https://github.com/statsle/WassersteinSSL.

[Models]
We conduct experiments on a series of self-supervised representation learning models: (i) AlignUniform (Wang & Isola, 2020) , which incorporates both alignment and uniformity losses in its objective function; (ii) three contrastive learning methods, namely SimCLR (Chen et al., 2020) , MoCo (He et al., 2020) , and NNCLR (Dwibedi et al., 2021) ; (iii) two asymmetric models, BYOL (Grill et al., 2020) and SimSiam (Chen & He, 2021); (iv) two methods based on redundancy reduction, BarlowTwins (Zbontar et al., 2021) and Zero-CL (Zhang et al., 2022b) . To investigate the behavior of the proposed Wasserstein uniformity loss in self-supervised learning, we integrate it as an auxiliary loss into the following models: MoCo v2, BYOL, BarlowTwins, and Zero-CL. Additionally, we propose using linear decay to weight the Wasserstein uniformity loss during training. This is achieved by setting α t = α max -t, (α max -α min )/T , where t, T , α max , α min , and α t represent the current epoch, maximum epochs, maximum weight, minimum weight, and current weight, respectively. Further details on the experimental settings can be found in Appendix F.1.
